README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<a href="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/rodrigosoldi/liturgydatabase"><img alt="GitHub Tag" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/rodrigosoldi/liturgydatabase"></a>
<a href="https://swift.org/package-manager/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SPM-supported-DE5C43.svg?style=flat"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/rodrigosoldi/LiturgyDatabase/blob/main/LICENSE"><img alt="GitHub License" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/rodrigosoldi/liturgydatabase?color=%23ffffff&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Frodrigosoldi%2FLiturgyDatabase%2Fblob%2Fmain%2FLICENSE"></a>
<img alt="GitHub last commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/rodrigosoldi/liturgydatabase">
<img alt="GitHub commit activity (branch)" src="https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/rodrigosoldi/liturgydatabase/release">
</p>

# LiturgyDatabase

- Liturgies from **_June, 2024, 1st_** to **_July, 2025, 31th_**

**This repo is updated periodically with new liturgies**
**All liturgies are in Portuguese**

A little repo with two products:
- Library: **LiturgyDatabase**
  - A tool to consume generated database
- Executable: **LiturgyMakeDatabase**
    - An executable swift spm project to create a Database with Catholic Liturgy.

## Table of Contents

- [LiturgyDatabase](#liturgydatabase)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Swift Package Manager](#swift-package-manager)
    - [Manually](#manually)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [LiturgyDatabase](#liturgydatabase-1)
    - [LiturgyMakeDatabase](#liturgymakedatabase)
  - [Examples](#examples)
    - [LiturgyDatabase](#liturgydatabase-2)
    - [LiturgyMakeDatabase](#liturgymakedatabase-1)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Contact](#contact)
  - [Credits](#credits)

## Installation

### Swift Package Manager

The [Swift Package Manager](https://swift.org/package-manager/) is a tool for automating the distribution of Swift code and is integrated into the `swift` compiler.

Once you have your Swift package set up, adding LiturgyDatabase as a dependency is as easy as adding it to the `dependencies` value of your `Package.swift` or the Package list in Xcode.

```swift
dependencies: [
    .package(url: "https://github.com/rodrigosoldi/LiturgyDatabase.git", from: "1.0.0")
]
```

Normally you'll want to depend on the `LiturgyDatabase` target:

```swift
.product(name: "LiturgyDatabase")
```

### Manually

If you prefer not to use any of the aforementioned dependency managers, you can download `LiturgyDatabase` and run it manually.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rodrigosoldi/LiturgyDatabase.git
```

## Usage

_*Make sure you have `swift` installed on your machine._

### LiturgyDatabase

Use `LiturgyDatabase` to fetch and filter all liturgies on database.

### LiturgyMakeDatabase

To execute the project run:

```swift
swift run LiturgyMakeDatabase <PATH_TO_CREATE_DATABASE.realm>
```

It will iterate all jsons in folder `Liturgies` trying to add them to the database.
To add more liturgies, create new jsons and add on `Liturgies` folder.
See [Example](#example) to create a readable json.
You can use an [Empty](./Example/empty.json) json to create a new one.

You will see the path of the database, and a little description for each liturgy added on database.

If you don't want run the project, go to [Database Folder](./Database) and use `database.realm` to develop.

## Examples

### LiturgyDatabase

```swift
let liturgyDatabaseController: LiturgyDatabaseControllable = try LiturgyDatabaseController()
let liturgies: [Liturgy] = try await liturgyDatabaseController.fetchAll()
```

### LiturgyMakeDatabase

Once you download the project you will see an [Example JSON](./Example/example.json) at folder `Examples`. Feel free to update it json and run project to see updates.
Follow its structure to create new liturgies.
I suggest creating one JSON file per liturgy day, but the structure is already prepared to receive an array of liturgies.

```json
{
    "version": 2,
    "liturgies": [
        {
            "date": "18/08/24",
            "liturgy": "Assunção da Bem-aventurada Virgem Maria, Solenidade",
            "liturgicalColor": "BRANCO",
            "obs": "",
            "readings": [
                {
                    "type": "reading",
                    "title": "1ª Leitura",
                    "obs": "",
                    "readings" : [
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "Cron 15,3-4.15-16; 16,1-2",
                            "title": "Leitura do Primeiro Livro das Crônicas",
                            "text": "Naqueles dias, 3 Davi convocou todo o Israel em Jerusalém, a fim de transportar a arca do Senhor para o lugar que lhe havia preparado. 4 Davi reuniu também os filhos de Aarão e os levitas. 15 Os filhos de Levi levaram a arca de Deus, com os varais sobre os ombros, como Moisés havia mandado, de acordo com a ordem do Senhor. 16 Davi ordenou aos chefes dos levitas que designassem seus irmãos como cantores, para entoarem cânticos festivos, acompanhados de instrumentos musicais, harpas, cítaras e címbalos. 16,1 Tendo, pois, introduzido a arca de Deus e colocado no meio da tenda que Davi tinha armado, ofereceram na presença de Deus holocaustos e sacrifícios pacíficos. 2 Depois de oferecer os holocaustos e os sacrifícios pacíficos, Davi abençoou o povo em nome do Senhor."
                        },
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "Ap 11,19a; 12,1.3-6a.10ab",
                            "title": "Leitura do Livro do Apocalipse de São João",
                            "text": "Abriu-se o Templo de Deus que está no céu e apareceu no Templo a arca da Aliança. 12,1 Então apareceu no céu um grande sinal: uma mulher vestida de sol, tendo a lua debaixo dos pés e sobre a cabeça uma coroa de doze estrelas. 3 Então apareceu outro sinal no céu: um grande Dragão, cor de fogo. Tinha sete cabeças e dez chifres e, sobre as cabeças, sete coroas. 4 Com a cauda, varria a terça parte das estrelas do céu, atirando-as sobre a terra. O Dragão parou diante da Mulher que estava para dar à luz, pronto para devorar o seu Filho, logo que nascesse. 5 E ela deu à luz um filho homem, que veio para governar todas as nações com cetro de ferro. Mas o Filho foi levado para junto de Deus e do seu trono. 6a A mulher fugiu para o deserto, onde Deus lhe tinha preparado um lugar. 10ab Ouvi então uma voz forte no céu, proclamando: \"Agora realizou-se a salvação, a força e a realeza do nosso Deus, e o poder do seu Cristo\"."
                        }
                    ]                
                },
                {
                    "type": "psalm",
                    "title": "Salmo",
                    "obs": "",
                    "readings": [                        
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "Sl 131(132)",
                            "chorus": "Subi, Senhor, para o lugar de vosso pouso, subi com vossa arca poderosa!",
                            "verses": [
                                "Nós soubemos que a arca estava em Éfrata e nos campos de Iaar a encontramos: entremos no lugar em que ele habita, ante o escabelo de seus pés o adoremos!",
                                "Que se vistam de alegria os vossos santos, e os vossos sacerdotes, de justiça! Por causa de Davi, o vosso servo, não afasteis do vosso Ungido a vossa face!",
                                "Pois o Senhor quis para si Jerusalém e a desejou para que fosse sua morada: \"Eis o lugar do meu repouso para sempre, eu fico aqui: este é o lugar que preferi!\""
                            ]
                        },
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "Sl 5Sl 44(45)",
                            "chorus": "À vossa direita se encontra a rainha, com veste esplendente de ouro de Ofir.",
                            "verses": [
                                "As filhas de reis vêm ao vosso encontro, e à vossa direita se encontra a rainha com veste esplendente de ouro de Ofir.",
                                "Escutai, minha filha, olhai, ouvi isto: \"Esquecei vosso povo e a casa paterna! Que o Rei se encante com vossa beleza! Prestai-lhe homenagem: é vosso Senhor!",
                                "Entre cantos de festa e com grande alegria, ingressam, então, no palácio real\". "
                            ]
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "type": "reading",
                    "title": "2ª Leitura",
                    "obs": "",
                    "readings" : [                        
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "I Cor 15,54-57",
                            "title": "Leitura da Primeira Carta de São Paulo aos Coríntios",
                            "text": "Irmãos: 54 Quando este ser corruptível estiver vestido de incorruptibilidade e este ser mortal estiver vestido de imortalidade, então estará cumprida a palavra da Escritura: \"A morte foi tragada pela vitória. 55 Ó morte, onde está a tua vitória? Onde está o teu aguilhão?\" 56 O aguilhão da morte é o pecado, e a força do pecado é a Lei. 57 Graças sejam dadas a Deus que nos dá a vitória pelo Senhor nosso, Jesus Cristo."
                        },
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "I Cor 15,20-27a",
                            "title": "Leitura da Primeira Carta de São Paulo aos Coríntios",
                            "text": "Irmãos: 20 Cristo ressuscitou dos mortos como primícias dos que morreram. 21 Com efeito, por um homem veio a morte e é também por um homem que vem a ressurreição dos mortos. 22 Como em Adão todos morrem, assim também em Cristo todos reviverão. 23 Porém, cada qual segundo uma ordem determinada: Em primeiro lugar, Cristo, como primícias; depois, os que pertencem a Cristo, por ocasião da sua vinda. 24 A seguir, será o fim, quando ele entregar a realeza a Deus-Pai, depois de destruir todo principado e todo poder e força. 25 Pois é preciso que ele reine até que todos os seus inimigos estejam debaixo de seus pés. 26 O último inimigo a ser destruído é a morte. 27a Com efeito, \"Deus pôs tudo debaixo de seus pés\"."
                        }
                    ]                
                },
                {
                    "type": "gospel",
                    "title": "Evangelho",
                    "obs": "",
                    "readings": [                        
                        {
                            "gospelAcclamation": {
                                "chorus": "Aleluia, Aleluia, Aleluia.",
                                "text": "Felizes aqueles que ouvem a palavra de Deus e a guardam!"
                            },
                            "reading": {
                                "obs": "",
                                "reference": "Lc 11,27-28",
                                "title": null,
                                "text": "Naquele tempo, 27 Enquanto Jesus falava ao povo uma mulher levantou a voz no meio da multidão e lhe disse: \"Feliz o ventre que te trouxe e os seios que te amamentaram\". 28 Jesus respondeu: \"Muito mais felizes são aqueles que ouvem a palavra de Deus e a põem em prática\"."
                            }
                        },
                        {
                            "gospelAcclamation": {
                                "chorus": "Aleluia, Aleluia, Aleluia.",
                                "text": "Maria é elevada ao céu, alegram-se os coros dos anjos."
                            },
                            "reading": {
                                "obs": "",
                                "reference": "Lc 1,39-56",
                                "title": "Proclamação do Evangelho de Jesus Cristo + segundo Lucas",
                                "text": "Naqueles dias, 39 Maria partiu para a região montanhosa, dirigindo-se, apressadamente, a uma cidade da Judeia. 40 Entrou na casa de Zacarias e cumprimentou Isabel. 41 Quando Isabel ouviu a saudação de Maria, a criança pulou no seu ventre e Isabel ficou cheia do Espírito Santo. 42 Com um grande grito, exclamou: \"Bendita és tu entre as mulheres e bendito é o fruto do teu ventre!\" 43 Como posso merecer que a mãe do meu Senhor me venha visitar? 44 Logo que a tua saudação chegou aos meus ouvidos, a criança pulou de alegria no meu ventre. 45 Bem-aventurada aquela que acreditou, porque será cumprido, o que o Senhor lhe prometeu\". 46 Então Maria disse: \"A minha alma engrandece o Senhor, 47 e o meu espírito se alegra em Deus, meu Salvador, 48 porque olhou para a humildade de sua serva. Doravante todas as gerações me chamarão bem-aventurada, 49 porque o Todo-poderoso fez grandes coisas em meu favor. O seu nome é santo, 50 e sua misericórdia se estende, de geração em geração, a todos os que o respeitam. 51 Ele mostrou a força de seu braço: dispersou os soberbos de coração. 52 Derrubou do trono os poderosos e elevou os humildes. 53 Encheu de bens os famintos, e despediu os ricos de mãos vazias. 54 Socorreu Israel, seu servo, lembrando-se de sua misericórdia, 55 conforme prometera aos nossos pais, em favor de Abraão e de sua descendência, para sempre\". 56 Maria ficou três meses com Isabel; depois voltou para casa."
                            }
                        }
                    ]
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

## Features

- [x] Make from JSON
- [X] SPM project consuming it database
- [ ] Get JSON from server

## Contributing

Feel free to fork the project and collaborate.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch: `git checkout -b feature/my-new-feature`
3. Make your changes and commit them: `git commit -m 'Add some feature'`
4.	Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/my-new-feature`
5.	Submit a pull request.

## License

LiturgyDatabase is released under the MIT license. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

## Contact

- [Mail Me](mailto:rodrigosoldi@icloud.com)

## Credits

- [Rodrigo Soldi](https://github.com/rodrigosoldi)

Commit message:

Update README.md with correct liturgy dates and add project rules
- Update liturgy date range from July 2025 to October 2025
- Fix broken links and folder references in README
- Add documentation for generateDatabase.sh script
- Add .cursorrules file with build and deploy automation
- Create 'bd' shortcut for build and deploy process

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<a href="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/rodrigosoldi/liturgydatabase"><img alt="GitHub Tag" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/rodrigosoldi/liturgydatabase"></a>
<a href="https://swift.org/package-manager/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SPM-supported-DE5C43.svg?style=flat"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/rodrigosoldi/LiturgyDatabase/blob/main/LICENSE"><img alt="GitHub License" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/rodrigosoldi/liturgydatabase?color=%23ffffff&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Frodrigosoldi%2FLiturgyDatabase%2Fblob%2Fmain%2FLICENSE"></a>
<img alt="GitHub last commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/rodrigosoldi/liturgydatabase">
<img alt="GitHub commit activity (branch)" src="https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/rodrigosoldi/liturgydatabase/release">
</p>

# LiturgyDatabase

- Liturgies from **_June, 2024, 1st_** to **_October, 2025, 31st_**

**This repo is updated periodically with new liturgies**
**All liturgies are in Portuguese**

A little repo with two products:
- Library: **LiturgyDatabase**
  - A tool to consume generated database
- Executable: **LiturgyMakeDatabase**
    - An executable swift spm project to create a Database with Catholic Liturgy.

## Table of Contents

- [LiturgyDatabase](#liturgydatabase)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Swift Package Manager](#swift-package-manager)
    - [Manually](#manually)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [LiturgyDatabase](#liturgydatabase-1)
    - [LiturgyMakeDatabase](#liturgymakedatabase)
  - [Examples](#examples)
    - [LiturgyDatabase](#liturgydatabase-2)
    - [LiturgyMakeDatabase](#liturgymakedatabase-1)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Contact](#contact)
  - [Credits](#credits)

## Installation

### Swift Package Manager

The [Swift Package Manager](https://swift.org/package-manager/) is a tool for automating the distribution of Swift code and is integrated into the `swift` compiler.

Once you have your Swift package set up, adding LiturgyDatabase as a dependency is as easy as adding it to the `dependencies` value of your `Package.swift` or the Package list in Xcode.

```swift
dependencies: [
    .package(url: "https://github.com/rodrigosoldi/LiturgyDatabase.git", from: "1.0.0")
]
```

Normally you'll want to depend on the `LiturgyDatabase` target:

```swift
.product(name: "LiturgyDatabase")
```

### Manually

If you prefer not to use any of the aforementioned dependency managers, you can download `LiturgyDatabase` and run it manually.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rodrigosoldi/LiturgyDatabase.git
```

## Usage

_*Make sure you have `swift` installed on your machine._

### LiturgyDatabase

Use `LiturgyDatabase` to fetch and filter all liturgies on database.

### LiturgyMakeDatabase

To execute the project run:

```swift
swift run LiturgyMakeDatabase <PATH_TO_CREATE_DATABASE.realm>
```

It will iterate all jsons in folder `Liturgies` trying to add them to the database.
To add more liturgies, create new jsons and add on `Liturgies` folder.
See [Examples](#examples) to create a readable json.
You can use an [Empty](./Example/empty.json) json to create a new one.

You will see the path of the database, and a little description for each liturgy added on database.

If you don't want run the project, go to [Database Folder](./Database) and use `database.realm` to develop.

### Database Generation Script

The project includes a convenient script `generateDatabase.sh` that automatically builds the project and generates the database:

```bash
./generateDatabase.sh
```

This script will:
1. Build the LiturgyMakeDatabase executable
2. Run it to process all JSON files in the Liturgies folder
3. Generate the database.realm file in the Database folder
4. Copy the generated database to the Sources/LiturgyDatabase/resources folder

## Examples

### LiturgyDatabase

```swift
let liturgyDatabaseController: LiturgyDatabaseControllable = try LiturgyDatabaseController()
let liturgies: [Liturgy] = try await liturgyDatabaseController.fetchAll()
```

### LiturgyMakeDatabase

Once you download the project you will see an [Example JSON](./Example/example.json) at folder `Example`. Feel free to update it json and run project to see updates.
Follow its structure to create new liturgies.
I suggest creating one JSON file per liturgy day, but the structure is already prepared to receive an array of liturgies.

```json
{
    "version": 2,
    "liturgies": [
        {
            "date": "18/08/24",
            "liturgy": "Assunção da Bem-aventurada Virgem Maria, Solenidade",
            "liturgicalColor": "BRANCO",
            "obs": "",
            "readings": [
                {
                    "type": "reading",
                    "title": "1ª Leitura",
                    "obs": "",
                    "readings" : [
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "Cron 15,3-4.15-16; 16,1-2",
                            "title": "Leitura do Primeiro Livro das Crônicas",
                            "text": "Naqueles dias, 3 Davi convocou todo o Israel em Jerusalém, a fim de transportar a arca do Senhor para o lugar que lhe havia preparado. 4 Davi reuniu também os filhos de Aarão e os levitas. 15 Os filhos de Levi levaram a arca de Deus, com os varais sobre os ombros, como Moisés havia mandado, de acordo com a ordem do Senhor. 16 Davi ordenou aos chefes dos levitas que designassem seus irmãos como cantores, para entoarem cânticos festivos, acompanhados de instrumentos musicais, harpas, cítaras e címbalos. 16,1 Tendo, pois, introduzido a arca de Deus e colocado no meio da tenda que Davi tinha armado, ofereceram na presença de Deus holocaustos e sacrifícios pacíficos. 2 Depois de oferecer os holocaustos e os sacrifícios pacíficos, Davi abençoou o povo em nome do Senhor."
                        },
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "Ap 11,19a; 12,1.3-6a.10ab",
                            "title": "Leitura do Livro do Apocalipse de São João",
                            "text": "Abriu-se o Templo de Deus que está no céu e apareceu no Templo a arca da Aliança. 12,1 Então apareceu no céu um grande sinal: uma mulher vestida de sol, tendo a lua debaixo dos pés e sobre a cabeça uma coroa de doze estrelas. 3 Então apareceu outro sinal no céu: um grande Dragão, cor de fogo. Tinha sete cabeças e dez chifres e, sobre as cabeças, sete coroas. 4 Com a cauda, varria a terça parte das estrelas do céu, atirando-as sobre a terra. O Dragão parou diante da Mulher que estava para dar à luz, pronto para devorar o seu Filho, logo que nascesse. 5 E ela deu à luz um filho homem, que veio para governar todas as nações com cetro de ferro. Mas o Filho foi levado para junto de Deus e do seu trono. 6a A mulher fugiu para o deserto, onde Deus lhe tinha preparado um lugar. 10ab Ouvi então uma voz forte no céu, proclamando: \"Agora realizou-se a salvação, a força e a realeza do nosso Deus, e o poder do seu Cristo\"."
                        }
                    ]                
                },
                {
                    "type": "psalm",
                    "title": "Salmo",
                    "obs": "",
                    "readings": [                        
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "Sl 131(132)",
                            "chorus": "Subi, Senhor, para o lugar de vosso pouso, subi com vossa arca poderosa!",
                            "verses": [
                                "Nós soubemos que a arca estava em Éfrata e nos campos de Iaar a encontramos: entremos no lugar em que ele habita, ante o escabelo de seus pés o adoremos!",
                                "Que se vistam de alegria os vossos santos, e os vossos sacerdotes, de justiça! Por causa de Davi, o vosso servo, não afasteis do vosso Ungido a vossa face!",
                                "Pois o Senhor quis para si Jerusalém e a desejou para que fosse sua morada: \"Eis o lugar do meu repouso para sempre, eu fico aqui: este é o lugar que preferi!\""
                            ]
                        },
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "Sl 5Sl 44(45)",
                            "chorus": "À vossa direita se encontra a rainha, com veste esplendente de ouro de Ofir.",
                            "verses": [
                                "As filhas de reis vêm ao vosso encontro, e à vossa direita se encontra a rainha com veste esplendente de ouro de Ofir.",
                                "Escutai, minha filha, olhai, ouvi isto: \"Esquecei vosso povo e a casa paterna! Que o Rei se encante com vossa beleza! Prestai-lhe homenagem: é vosso Senhor!",
                                "Entre cantos de festa e com grande alegria, ingressam, então, no palácio real\". "
                            ]
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "type": "reading",
                    "title": "2ª Leitura",
                    "obs": "",
                    "readings" : [                        
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "I Cor 15,54-57",
                            "title": "Leitura da Primeira Carta de São Paulo aos Coríntios",
                            "text": "Irmãos: 54 Quando este ser corruptível estiver vestido de incorruptibilidade e este ser mortal estiver vestido de imortalidade, então estará cumprida a palavra da Escritura: \"A morte foi tragada pela vitória. 55 Ó morte, onde está a tua vitória? Onde está o teu aguilhão?\" 56 O aguilhão da morte é o pecado, e a força do pecado é a Lei. 57 Graças sejam dadas a Deus que nos dá a vitória pelo Senhor nosso, Jesus Cristo."
                        },
                        {
                            "obs": "",
                            "reference": "I Cor 15,20-27a",
                            "title": "Leitura da Primeira Carta de São Paulo aos Coríntios",
                            "text": "Irmãos: 20 Cristo ressuscitou dos mortos como primícias dos que morreram. 21 Com efeito, por um homem veio a morte e é também por um homem que vem a ressurreição dos mortos. 22 Como em Adão todos morrem, assim também em Cristo todos reviverão. 23 Porém, cada qual segundo uma ordem determinada: Em primeiro lugar, Cristo, como primícias; depois, os que pertencem a Cristo, por ocasião da sua vinda. 24 A seguir, será o fim, quando ele entregar a realeza a Deus-Pai, depois de destruir todo principado e todo poder e força. 25 Pois é preciso que ele reine até que todos os seus inimigos estejam debaixo de seus pés. 26 O último inimigo a ser destruído é a morte. 27a Com efeito, \"Deus pôs tudo debaixo de seus pés\"."
                        }
                    ]                
                },
                {
                    "type": "gospel",
                    "title": "Evangelho",
                    "obs": "",
                    "readings": [                        
                        {
                            "gospelAcclamation": {
                                "chorus": "Aleluia, Aleluia, Aleluia.",
                                "text": "Felizes aqueles que ouvem a palavra de Deus e a guardam!"
                            },
                            "reading": {
                                "obs": "",
                                "reference": "Lc 11,27-28",
                                "title": null,
                                "text": "Naquele tempo, 27 Enquanto Jesus falava ao povo uma mulher levantou a voz no meio da multidão e lhe disse: \"Feliz o ventre que te trouxe e os seios que te amamentaram\". 28 Jesus respondeu: \"Muito mais felizes são aqueles que ouvem a palavra de Deus e a põem em prática\"."
                            }
                        },
                        {
                            "gospelAcclamation": {
                                "chorus": "Aleluia, Aleluia, Aleluia.",
                                "text": "Maria é elevada ao céu, alegram-se os coros dos anjos."
                            },
                            "reading": {
                                "obs": "",
                                "reference": "Lc 1,39-56",
                                "title": "Proclamação do Evangelho de Jesus Cristo + segundo Lucas",
                                "text": "Naqueles dias, 39 Maria partiu para a região montanhosa, dirigindo-se, apressadamente, a uma cidade da Judeia. 40 Entrou na casa de Zacarias e cumprimentou Isabel. 41 Quando Isabel ouviu a saudação de Maria, a criança pulou no seu ventre e Isabel ficou cheia do Espírito Santo. 42 Com um grande grito, exclamou: \"Bendita és tu entre as mulheres e bendito é o fruto do teu ventre!\" 43 Como posso merecer que a mãe do meu Senhor me venha visitar? 44 Logo que a tua saudação chegou aos meus ouvidos, a criança pulou de alegria no meu ventre. 45 Bem-aventurada aquela que acreditou, porque será cumprido, o que o Senhor lhe prometeu\". 46 Então Maria disse: \"A minha alma engrandece o Senhor, 47 e o meu espírito se alegra em Deus, meu Salvador, 48 porque olhou para a humildade de sua serva. Doravante todas as gerações me chamarão bem-aventurada, 49 porque o Todo-poderoso fez grandes coisas em meu favor. O seu nome é santo, 50 e sua misericórdia se estende, de geração em geração, a todos os que o respeitam. 51 Ele mostrou a força de seu braço: dispersou os soberbos de coração. 52 Derrubou do trono os poderosos e elevou os humildes. 53 Encheu de bens os famintos, e despediu os ricos de mãos vazias. 54 Socorreu Israel, seu servo, lembrando-se de sua misericórdia, 55 conforme prometera aos nossos pais, em favor de Abraão e de sua descendência, para sempre\". 56 Maria ficou três meses com Isabel; depois voltou para casa."
                            }
                        }
                    ]
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

## Features

- [x] Make from JSON
- [X] SPM project consuming it database
- [ ] Get JSON from server

## Contributing

Feel free to fork the project and collaborate.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch: `git checkout -b feature/my-new-feature`
3. Make your changes and commit them: `git commit -m 'Add some feature'`
4.	Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/my-new-feature`
5.	Submit a pull request.

## License

LiturgyDatabase is released under the MIT license. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

## Contact

- [Mail Me](mailto:rodrigosoldi@icloud.com)

## Credits

- [Rodrigo Soldi](https://github.com/rodrigosoldi)
